To begin, I'd like to share a personal experience with you.
When I was told that I was appointed to be a member of the governing body,
one of the brothers who informed me said,
with this assignment,
you'll experience a great increase in responsibility,
but you'll also see a corresponding increase in Jehovah's Spirit to help you.
It will not be too much for you.
Well, those words were very, very reassuring to me.
And the fact is that all of us, no matter who we are serving Jehovah faithfully,
we must rely on His help to succeed in serving Him.
Now, how do we show this and receive His help?
There are a number of ways we're going to focus on three of them.
They are follow direction, show faith, and use common sense,
or the thinking ability that Jehovah has given to us.
So let's consider the first step.
Sometimes all that's required to receive Jehovah's blessing on our work is to follow a simple, clear direction.
Now, here's a Bible example of that.
It's found in Mark chapter 14.
Mark chapter 14.
Now, you'll recall from this account that God's son directed two of his disciples to go into Jerusalem
and to prepare a large furnished upper room for the Passover.
His directions were specific.
For instance, Jesus said that they would meet a man carrying a large,
by not earthenware jar, and they were to follow Him.
And then starting in verse 14, Jesus added this.
He said, wherever He goes inside, say to the master of the house,
the teacher says, where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
And He will show you a large upper room furnished and ready, prepared for us there.
So the disciples went out, and they entered the city and founded just as He said to them,
and they prepared for the Passover.
So the directions were simple, right?
They were told where they should go, who they should follow, what they were to say,
and what they were to do.
And the two disciples promptly followed that direction.
And of course, their obedience brought many blessings, as we know.
Well, what practical lesson can you draw from this?
The lesson that sometimes all that is needed in serving Jehovah is to follow simple, clear direction.
You'll have many opportunities to do so in your assignments.
Follow clear direction, and look for Jehovah's blessing on it.
But now, in the other hand, you might be asked to care for something that's far more involved than that.
For example, what if you're asked to assist someone who's known to be difficult to deal with?
Or you're asked to care for a work-related problem that others have not been able to solve?
You're the one selected, because you've had the training.
In such a case, what will help you?
Your strong faith, the next step.
The fact is that at times we need to show added faith to fulfill our assignments, true?
Consider the example of Ananias.
Now, he too was a man of faith.
But he faced a challenge that required even more of him, and we read about it in Acts chapter 9.
We'll begin with verse 10.
Acts chapter 9, verse 10.
It says, there was a disciple named Ananias and Damascus, and the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias.
He said, here I am, Lord.
The Lord said to him, get up, go to the street, call straight, and look for a man named Saul from Tarsus at the house of Judas.
For look, he is praying.
And in a vision, he has seen a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he may recover sight.
But Ananias answered, Lord, I've heard about many about all the harm he did to your holy ones in Jerusalem.
And here he has authority from the chief priest to arrest all those calling on your name.
But the Lord said to him, go, because this man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations, as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.
For I will show him plainly how many things he must suffer for my name.
Well, the direction was clear.
Where should Ananias go to the street called straight?
Who was he looking for? A man named Saul.
What house is he in? The house of Judas.
Ananias was even told what Saul was doing. He is praying.
Then Ananias was told what he should do.
He was to lay his hands on him so that he would recover sight.
Simple, right? Jesus would do the rest.
What a great example of giving clear direction.
But here is where Ananias needed to stir up more faith.
The man he was to visit had severely persecuted the holy ones in Jerusalem.
And speaking to the Lord, Ananias added that this man quote has authority from the chief priest to arrest all those calling on your name.
Well, talk about stating the obvious to Jesus.
The point is that Ananias had a moment where he was overwhelmed by the way to the assignment. That's just what happened.
What would help him? More faith.
And Jesus knew how to draw it up in that dear man.
Look again at Jesus' reply. He simply restated his command, go.
Then Jesus said that this man is a chosen vessel to me, to bear my name to the nations, as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.
Now, Jesus added something there, didn't he?
He pointed to the future. What was he doing?
He was helping Ananias to look ahead.
And doing this evidently prompted Ananias to show even more faith, which is what he needed.
How do we know this?
Well, look at what he said to Saul.
On meeting Saul, in verse 17 tells us that Ananias called him brother.
His initial hesitation had changed into putting his full faith and trust in Jesus' direction.
Well, like Ananias, as you face challenges in the future and they will come, they come upon all of us.
Have strong faith that Jehovah sees what is needed.
And he and his dear son will help you.
Keep the big picture in mind.
And look to the blessings ahead for your hard work.
Jehovah will always bless your strong faith in him.
Well, so far we've looked at the need to follow clear direction and to show strong faith.
Now we're going to add another step.
Use common sense or thinking ability.
Our Bible example, Elijah.
In this account, Elijah has traveled to Zaratheth, a Phoenician coastal town.
What was his business there?
Well, the lamb was in the grip of a long drought.
And Jehovah would help his prophet by means of someone in that town.
Elijah was told, look, I will command a widow there to supply you with food.
It appears that he gave no other details about the widow than that.
So how would Elijah find her?
Would Elijah look for the wealthiest widow to care for his needs?
Or would he use common sense and thinking ability along with his faith?
Let's see what Elijah does at first King's chapter 17.
And we're going to read verse 10.
First King's 1710, it says, so he Elijah rose up and went to Zaratheth.
When he came to the entrance of the city, there was a widow gathering pieces of wood.
So he called to her and said, please, bring me a little water and a cup so that I may drink.
So then what did Elijah do?
Evidently, he approached the very first widow he met.
And she was not a wealthy widow, but a poor one.
In fact, it says Elijah had not yet passed beyond the entrance of the city.
What does this tell us about Elijah?
First, he showed no prejudice and following through on Jehovah's direction, did he?
And second, he added thinking ability to his obedience and faith.
How so?
Well, common sense would tell him to show his faith and start looking with the very first widow he met.
Elijah obviously had confidence that Jehovah would make his choice clear.
His obedience, faith, and good sense were rewarded because that widow was Jehovah's choice.
Now, surely Holy Spirit guided Elijah, but we can't ignore the faith and clear thinking ability
that Elijah developed as he obediently did God's will after all prior to that widow,
Jehovah used birds to carry food to his prophet.
Surely, Jehovah could use a poor widow as well.
What's the lesson for you and for all of us?
Sometimes we're given much to go on when we receive an assignment.
At other times, frankly, maybe not so much.
In such a case, our faith and clear thinking ability reminds us to trust in Jehovah
and to look for his guidance as we go forward in doing his will.
Jehovah will always help you dear friends at the right time.
So then as our example show promptly obey, show strong faith,
and use common sense and thinking ability in our service to our dear Heavenly Father.
Remembering such lessons will help you as you support Jehovah's work in your respective branches.
Jehovah gives power beyond what is normal to those who rely on him
and who follow the steps that lead to blessings.
And we are confident that this will always be true of you.